- Spotify starts experimenting with transforming songs, artists and historical usage data into 'numerical vectors.'

These vectors capture the essense of the data going beyond genre labels or keywords. 
e.g "Happy" -> 0.09234242, 0.01987486, 0.05252523532, 0.0822522222...-> Joyful, Upbeat
e.g "All of me" -> 0.2324242, 0.025987486, 0.0252252523532, 0.9822522222...-> Wedding, Soulful

- Spotify revolutionalize its recommendation system with a process known as vector embeddings.

- Embeddings are building blocks of many machine learning and AI algorithms. If you need to buidling AI apps you need to learn embeddings and working with vector databases.

- What to expect:
 - Embeddings basics (use and its understanding)
 - create embeddings with Open AI API (Turn words, phrases into meaningful vector presentations)
 - Intro to vector databases.
 - setup and use vector database. (store embeddings)
 - AI driven search and conversations. (learn how AI powered chatbot and apps actually think, and replying like humans )
 - AI development framework LangChain (text splitting or chunking a crucial step in preparing text for vector embeddings)
 

 Q. What are embeddings?

 - when you present a question to AI, it first needs to translate it and format it so it can understand.
 So you can think embeddings as a language that AI understands.

 - The term embedding is a mathematical concept that refers to placing one object into a different space.
 Think of like taking a word or sentence which is a content space and transforming it into different representation like a set of numbers in a vector space, all while preserving its original message and the relationships between other words and phrases. 
 e.g "Hello world" -> 0.22234242, 0.436987486, 0.63252523532, 0.0345435322

 - AI systems process lots of data from user inputs to transform information and databases. At the heart of this processing are embeddings which are vectors represent that data. 

 Transforming content like search queries, photos, songs or videos into vectors gives machine power to effectivly compare categorize and understand the content in a way that's almost human.

- Think of vector as a coordinate or point in a space. Think of like X-Y axis and cat is translated into a vector e.g cat(4.5, 12.2). This vector encapsulates the meaning and naunces of the word cat in a way an AI model understand and then we word feline(4.7, 12.6) represented by a nearby vector of 4.7 and 12.6. So we will place that on the graph.
Now words that have similar meaning are numerically similar and tend to be closely positioned in the vector space. 
So this closeness implies that the cat and feline have the similar meaning. Now let's say we have a word or vectors for kitten(5.1, 12.1) which might be also be close to cat and feline, but may be slightly further apart due to its age related nuance. 

The dog(7.5, 10.5) is different but still in the same general domain of domesticated animals. So the word dog might be represented by a vector that's not too distant, but clearly in a different region. Lets say (7.5, 10.5) and even a phrase like man's best friend(7.6, 10.7), which is colloquial term for a dog could be represented by a vector that's close to the vector for dog. 
On the other hand the word like building is not related in meaning to any of these so its vector would be much further apart 

Supabase:
hEscowfnDfP8FRGN
https://fwosxzoihryeqckruogv.supabase.co


# Semantic Search
Embeddings that are numberically similar or closer together are also sementically similar 

The query that actually finds and ranks embeddings based on their similarity or distance to query embedding.
PG vector supports operation for calculating distance, the operator used here is called cosine distance. 
Note that function name should match the table name exactly, here 'document' is table name.

```
-- Create a function to search for documents
create or replace function match_documents (
  query_embedding vector(1536),
  match_threshold float,
  match_count int
)
returns table (
  id bigint,
  content text,
  similarity float
)
language sql stable
as $$
  select
    documents.id,
    documents.content,
    1 - (documents.embedding <=> query_embedding) as similarity
  from documents
  where 1 - (documents.embedding <=> query_embedding) > match_threshold
  order by similarity desc
  limit match_count; 
$$;
```

import { openai, supabase } from "./config.js";

// User query about podcasts
const query = "Frozen song in the sea";
main(query);

/*
  Create an embedding from the user input and return a 
  semantically matching text chunk from the database 
*/
async function main(input) {
  // Create a vector embedding representing the input text
  const embeddingResponse = await openai.embeddings.create({
    model: "text-embedding-ada-002",
    input,
  });

  // The vector generated by OpenAI
  const embedding = embeddingResponse.data[0].embedding;

  // Query Supabase for nearest vector match
  const { data } = await supabase.rpc("match_documents", {
    query_embedding: embedding,
    match_threshold: 0.5,
    match_count: 3,
  });
  // console.log(data);
  console.log(data[0].content, data[0].similarity);
}

output:
[
   {
     id: 12,
     content: 'Jazz under stars (55 min): Experience a captivating night in New Orleans, where jazz melodies echo under the moonlit sky.',
     similarity: 0.846741685465487
   },
   {
     id: 2,
     content: 'Jazz under stars (55 min): Experience a captivating night in New Orleans, where jazz melodies echo under the moonlit sky.',
     similarity: 0.846721768379236
   },
   {
     id: 4,
     content: 'Rediscovering lost melodies (48 min): Journey through time to explore the resurgence of vinyl culture and its timeless appeal.',
     similarity: 0.782044794315726
   }
 ]

Imagine how you might use this approach to search through a text document like research paper, legal contract, financial report or may be even tens or thousands of documents and quicky search surface information, ask questions, get summaries solely based on theri context.

Note: The above technique would be fine only if you searching podcast titles and descriptions.

# Create Conversational Response using openai.

we can acheive a more dynamic and conversation response by sending the matched text to OpenAI chat completions endpoint and instructing the model to formulate the specific answer.

The chat completions endpoint is designed to handle back and forth conversations. You just feed it some instructions and series of messages, and it returns an appropriate continuation of that conversation. 